# Advice

Some lessons I've learned about the world of real estate while practicing part-time.

- Most agents are not good. To elaborate on this more, what I mean is:
  - A lot of agents are only familiar with a few buildings, and will just take you to places they have already been. Typically, these are also buildings that are near where they live. If you notice this, I would suggest telling the agent to look in other places, or call them out for it. Going on StreetEasy is a great way to normalize this check.
  - A lot of agents are not very responsive or organized, and need a lot of effort from your side to get things done.
  - A lot of agents are __late__ to showings. It's infuriating how often this happens.
  - What all of these factors mean, is that just by doing these parts right, you can be an above average agent. Remember Power Laws -- only a few people control the top, so if you can put in some effort to be there, you will be able to.

- Being too committed and eager on a client will be a turn-off for your client. As true as this is for dating, this is also true for dealing with your clients. It's dependent on your client obviously, but generally clients will implicitly give you an idea of when they want stuff from you. If you send stuff (and too many) too early, and ask them for their feedback, they may not be interested about the search yet, and think you're too pushy, and not want to do things through you.
  - Therefore, it is important to gauge your interest of your client. Is it too early? Then don't send stuff. If the deadline is getting close, you might need to push their interest first, before sending them a bunch of apartments.
- A big part of real estate is simply overlooking the process for your client. Yes, you have to help them find places, but a lot of it is just taking them to things they are likely to sign, and be there for signings. This is a lot of work, because you have to work within their schedule.
  - A corollary to this, is that if you aren't "sticky" enough to your client, it is easy to lose their focus or their loyalty to you, and partial efforts from you, e.g. sending them apartments or just going to a few showings with them may not be enough.
- As much as having a lot of options is great, sending **too many** options is also bad. After all, your client is trying to get the best picks from you and not have to choose, why should you make them choose? Therefore, it's best to limit the number of listings you send them. Something like 4-6 is a good start, and if they don't like anything, you can always tell them that you have more listings if they don't like anything they see.
- Real estate already has quite a bad rep for being sleazy and scamming agents. Therefore, if you try dirty tactics like only showing buildings with broker OP or one building that's good that you want them to sign, and then a bunch of bad buildings, that's going to be seen by them, and will make a bad impression on you.
- Just because a property is something that you think is the best option, even if you've considered it "through the lense of your client," you still have to respect your client's opinion above all. There are perceptions and judgments that you can't change about your client, so you have to respect that, and let them choose whichever property they like.
- At some point, you will realize there are things that are worth doing, and things that aren't worth doing for the reward / (risk + effort). For example, I used to go to any showing that my client would ask me to, but I soon realized that a lot of these showings were not worth going to, and I was wasting a ton of time and effort going to hopeless showings that my client wouldn't like anyway. Making sure to stand your ground and develop policies, charge commission properly, are all important not only for you to maximize your productivity, and keep your work-life balance reasonable.
  - *However*, when you first start, you will make a ton of mistakes, and it is ok to make these mistakes, as long as you are aware and correct them later.